imagine something so simple it's
overlooked it stares you in the eyes
once a month but information flows so
fast that you can't keep up you came
here for the truth so let me unveil that
for you in today's video I'm going to
explain something that's so easy to miss
and yet it's staring you right in the
face it's right under your nose so we
will look at this particular indicator
and you'll understand why it's important
I'll show you the charts associated with
it we're going to go back in history to
explain why this one thing is extremely
important to watch without further Ado
let's begin let's look at what's
happening number one with the US
unemployment rise being on the verge of
triggering a recession rule what rule is
that well it's this the rise in
unemployment to 3.9% last month means
joblessness is on the verge of
triggering the so-called Sam rule which
has proven to to be a Rel reliable
predictor of recessions in the past so
here it is when the the 3 Monon moving
average of the unemployment rate Rises
by half a percentage point so that would
be
0.5% or more relative to its low during
the previous 12 months the low for
joblessness so far this year was 3.4%
October's rate was the highest so far
this year following two readings at 3.8%
in August and September just shy of the
3.9% level that would trigger the Sam
rule that's right and so where are we
right now we are at that level it has
happened and this means that we are
right there right now us jobless rate
close to Sam rule trigger you could see
it October's reading was 0.5% higher
than this year low so we're basically
there right here and now now it's
nothing like what happened in 2020 and
we're not there like 2008 and so on and
so forth this is just the beginning but
you see the trend right take a look at
that I mean it is very
clear you can see on this chart
basically zooming in unemployment rate
Rises 0.5% in six months triggering the
Sam rule recession countdown and that's
it that's what you need to know I have
heard others basically saying when it's
below 4% and it rises above 4% then
that's another you know way to look at
it more simplified version either way
that's what we've seen
historically you will always see
unemployment going lower and lower and
lower and lower and lower something
blows up that just so happen happens to
correlate with an increase in interest
rates during that time isn't it funny
you increase the interest rates you
increase the unemployment at some point
something breaks and unemployment will
go up now they can keep people employed
by handing out you know loans to
businesses like they did back in 2020
don't fire anybody here's some money the
government could suddenly hire a whole
bunch of people they kind of already do
that as well there's more and more temp
workers there's more and more workers
that are working for the government in
one-way shape or form and you can do
that but can you do that for everybody
of course not we need small businesses
to remain so that
unemployment actually stays low real
unemployment but the small business is
feeling the pinch they're feeling the
squeeze and this is the Dilemma that we
have at this
time well I don't want to talk about
linoln Park but I do want to talk about
what happens in the
end here we have it Fed rate hikes
unemployment and recessions and time and
time again you see this so that if you
can look at this up close you're going
to see the shaded areas those are
recessions and always always always
leading up into that recession we see an
increase in interest rates we see that
today as well they've been increasing
quite a bit and
so we're leading into the same pattern
right we don't know what goes on into
the future right we don't know but look
at what's going on in the past one after
the other after the other after the
other they increase interest rates but
why did they increase interest rates
well things were getting too hot things
were getting crazy and there was maybe
some irrational exuberance that we've
seen alen Greenspan right but it could
could be because of oil it could be
because of the tech industry it could be
because of you know something happening
in a different country that's not the
point the point is that they increase
interest rates they tighten their policy
whether that's fiscal coming from the
government or monetary coming from the
central bank they tighten that policy in
doing so something breaks and when that
breaks companies start to lay off now it
might happen in one industry it might be
the bubble and you know Tech is the most
affected by that and that's what sees
the probably on the biggest you know
increase on the way up but then it feels
it on the way down the most but it does
spill over into other Industries it
could be Commodities it could be
anything the point is something breaks
usually where that thing broke is where
we feel it the most and the most
immediate and then you know we have what
the exact opposite they try to bring
interest rates down down they try to
stimulate and they try to essentially
devalue the currency that's the whole
purpose of the cycle I don't think
people put two and two together it's
almost as if these people are really
incompetent it's not incompetence that's
happening here this is all part of a
cycle and once we start to understand
that cycle um some call it the business
cycle or or what have you but don't get
focused on terms we need to understand
that this is part of a cycle that's all
and when I look at this I've studied it
all the way back into the past the great
inflation of Athens you know the Romans
every single one i' I've read as much as
I possibly could about these and I have
noted the same patterns occur over and
over again and right now we are walking
head first into that brick wall so we
need to realize what happens well take a
look now this article is not new as
you'll see at the bottom it says October
8th 2019 what was significant about that
time frame are you aware well I was
covering this one on the channel and
everybody that's been a faithful
subscriber this long knows what I'm
talking about started in September of
2019 Powell sees fed resuming balance
sheet growth but it's not QE oh that's
right uh yeah and by the way they were
cutting interest rates so they're
telling us dur during that period
they're saying we are expanding the
balance sheet we are cutting interest
rates but don't you know don't go
anywhere we're still T tough we're still
Standing Tall and this is not
quantitative easy you can call it
whatever you want you can call it Suzie
if you want but I'm telling you that
this is an issue because it's devaluing
your currency you call it whatever you
want and so not QE e not QE became a
term and understand this the balance
sheet expanded during this time in which
they said it's not QE faster than qe1
faster than QE2 faster than
qe3 call it anything you do this you
create a problem this is what they could
do yet again it could be a back door oh
no we're going to stand tough on
inflation we want to make sure that
we're listening to you fed listens we
want make sure that everything is being
taken care of and that inflation is in
check and yes we are managing this
appropriately our dual Mandate of Full
Employment hey unemployment's low and
price stability we're going to take care
of both of those that's their dual
mandate as as they say all the time but
there's an issue and so we're going to
go in and we're going to print a whole
bunch of money we're going to cut
interest rates potentially but it's not
QE and of course you have to pay the
price price because more inflation will
result price inflation will result you
know as
a an inevitable fact happens every
single time now what they do exactly
like during 2020 they were buying the
corporate bonds of all the companies
including Apple do you remember that
wild they could do something else
completely they could buy ETFs of the
whole stock market and and lift the
stock market up they could create a
subsidiary that does it because it's the
treasure through the treasury and they
do it in all these funky ways to make
sure that they don't have to change the
law but effectively do the exact same
thing back in that time frame it was
weird that some people were claiming I
don't know why I'm not sure where they
came from but they were claiming that
the government essentially the treasury
took over the Federal Reserve and now
everything was in check the Federal
Reserve would be dismantled and
eliminated in fact we saw the exact
opposite and we have determined that the
the need for the Federal Reserve to be
there to back stop all of this
fractional Reserve insanity is more
necessary than ever before because
they're unwilling to admit how bad the
system has been for the average person
for the middle class for you and I it's
not built for you and I it's built for
those that sit up in their Ivory
Towers so that's what we've had I think
it's important to look at this to
understand it and if you want some
assistance if you are dealing with this
during this time and you need you need
somebody a cfp you need a fiduciary then
check out money pickle you go to the
link in the description brings you over
to this page and then once you click the
link you are brought over to the money
pickle website directly on on my page
they just changed just
recently and these are good guys I
partnered with them because um you know
they're they initially seem legit I said
okay I talked to them we had the call I
got feedback from others who have used
it they said they thought it was great
and guess what it's free you're going to
get a
fiduciary or cfp to look at your
situation to talk with you and you don't
have to pay a dime so check it out click
the link in the description and let me
know your thoughts on this you can reach
out to me directly okay this is the
comment of the day as always love your
comments um I would appreciate other
YouTubers out there if they would care
about their comments too all you need to
know is that the prior to the banking
crisis in 200 uh 2008 Credit Agencies
gave the banks a AAA rating right up
until they collapsed and then they
turned to you to bail them out doesn't
that seem so unusual because they can't
be trusted we know that but the whole
system runs on the Federal Reserve on
the fractional Reserve Banking and
everything else so we've got to be
mindful of that understand that we're
basically playing in their world and so
we need much more of the knowledge of
the protection and we got to do
everything that we can each and every
day to stay ahead I hope you appreciate
this information if you did hit that
thumbs up button and of course as always
join me tomorrow take care